In this video I'll explain NSX controller cluster slicing and how it's used to divide up workload across
our NSX controller coster notes.
So the only supported configuration with an NSX controller cluster is three notes.
That's the only configuration that VM Ware supports.
And there are several roles that the NSX controller or nodes will perform and for each of these roles
a master node is elected never remember the NSX controller closter is in the control plane.
There is no service impact if a failure occurs but it does perform these critical roles.
And for each of these roles one note will become the master and it's the job of the master to divide
up this workload into slices and assign those slices to all of the nodes in the closter.
So the master node isn't doing all of the work for that particular role.
It's simply controlling the distribution of that workload.
Using this mechanism called slicing and if one of our NSX controller or cluster nodes fails the slice
is being handled on that node will be redistributed to some other no.
If the master node for a role fails a new master will be elected.
So let's take a look.
Let's take a look at how slicing works with a logical switch.
All right and remember the NSX controller has these three tables that it maintains the Mac table.
The ARP table and the Wii type table and these tables include information that are gathered from all
of our ESX hosts throughout the NSX domain.
Now this is a key function and is critical to the proper operation of NSX.
And these tables are constantly changing.
So when a change occurs in a host that change is in effect occurring on some slice and is handled by
the appropriate and sect's controller cluster node.
So for example here we see the master of the logical switching role has assigned to some slice of will
work to a particular note.
We have three NSX controller cluster nodes and this slice is being handled by one of those notes.
And if some sort of failure occurs and that node is no longer available then the Master will simply
reassign that slice to some other and sect's controller cluster no or there's a master for each role
and the master is responsible for dividing up all of the workload that the NSX controller must perform.
And distributing it across these three notes.
So how does slicing work when our NSX controller cluster nodes are created on hosts within a high availability
cluster.
So here we see four ESX hosts and these hosts have been configured in a VSE very high availability cluster
and we've got NSX controller nodes running in these ESX host there's one node running on host GSX 0
1 and then we've got other NSX controller cluster nodes running on ESX 0 2 and ESX 03.
And let's say that something happens to host ESX C02 and that host itself fails well.
Now what's going to happen is the logical switching master or the master node for each role will handle
re distributing those affected slices to one of the surviving NSX controllers.
So whatever work that one node was doing it can no longer do because it's gone right that second node
is gone.
So the master for each role will redistribute all of the slices and make sure that all the work still
is getting done.
Now vse for high availability will kick in when that ESX host fails and any virtual machines that were
running on that host are actually going to get booted up on some other host.
So when that VM comes back up when that controller node comes back up the master for each roll will
recognize hey we're back up to 3 and OS X controller cluster notes.
Let's redistribute this work load yet again any time.
And NSX controller node is either removed or added to that cluster maybe because of failure the master
for each roll will redistribute slices based on nodes being either added or removed.
So once we actually go through the process of deploying the NSX controller cluster where do we stand.
Well before we get started.
Number one we've got to make sure that our physical underlay is configured with an empty view of 6500
or greater so that it can handle that VX and encapsulated traffic.
We have to make sure we have a supported version of these fair install that the VSE fair distributed
switch is ready to go and is equipped with VM decks so that all of our underlaid traffic can flow over
the physical network
after these prerequisites.
We then go ahead and install an OS X manager.
Right.
And OS X manager always comes before the NSX controller closter.
And if we have a management cluster of ESX I hosts that's the appropriate spot for NSX manager.
Now if you're not familiar with what a management cluster is don't worry we'll cover later in this course.
And OS X manager must also be registered with the center and once that's done we'll be able to control
everything.
NSX related through the Vee's for web client and this allows us to complete tasks like host preparation.
And it also allows us to deploy the NSX controller cluster.
This should also reside in the management cluster.
If you have one after all these tasks are complete then we can start preparing for logical switches
by doing things like creating VNA pools and creating transport zones.
So in review the NSX controllers part of our control plane and there's 3 NSX controller nodes and an
NSX controller cluster.
These are three different virtual appliances
one NSX controller closter will exist for each NSX manager instance and for each role that the NSX controller
performs one node is elected as a master for that role.
The master is in charge of distributing workload across the NSX controller Questor notes and as nodes
are added or removed that workload is automatically redistributed.